Welcome back everyone to this lecture on image filters before we dive deeper into accomplished on neural
networks.
Let's first discuss a few key ideas in computer vision that pertain to the architecture of the way a
CNN works.
And keep in mind computer vision is just the general term of using computer programs to process image
data and topics like image filters and image kernels.
That's going to fall under computer vision.
So let's try to understand some of these key ideas.
And then later on we'll see how they relate to convolution on neural networks.
Now if you've ever used photo editing software or even photo applications on your phone you've probably
already seen filters such as a blur filter.
But the question arises how do these filters actually work.
What are they doing to the underlying pixels of an image in order to achieve this desired effect filters
are essentially an image kernel.
And keep in mind the term image filter and image kernel can be used interchangeably.
So you'll see some people call an image filters and other people call it image kernels.
The main idea is if you're referring to an image kernel you're probably referring to the more mathematical
understanding behind with the image filter is doing.
So let's talk about that.
So that image kernel it's a small matrix applied to an entire image.
Now certain popular filters are actually well known for example to blur an image.
You can actually just use this image Colonel that I've shown here.
This three by three matrix when applied to an entire image will actually blur the image.
So let's get an idea of what we mean by applied to an entire image so let's explore what that actually
means.
To apply Colonel or filter to an image filters essentially allow us to transform images so here we have
a grayscale image.
It's a really small image and well we have our values that are scaled between negative one and one where
one represents black and negative one represents white and then the value right in between them such
as Zero is essentially Gray.
So we have these normalized values green negative 1 and 1 and what I'm going to do is I'm going to apply
a filter to this image.
So here we have an example of a three by three filter.
So what we're going to do here in order to apply the filters to the image is starting at the top left
I'm going to see the essentially the corresponding values to the filter.
So essentially put that filter on top of the image pixels and then we're gonna begin sliding along and
when we have the filter on top of the image what we do is we multiply those pixel values by what we
are going to refer to now as the filter weights.
So the actual values the filter we're gonna be begin referring to them as weights because later on the
convolution on your network is going to choose those weights for us but we've kind of predetermined
some sort of filter values here in this three by three filter.
So we take that filter put it on top of our image and then as we kind of scan across this image we're
going to do is multiply by the filter weights we get those results and then we sum the result to get
some final output value.
So in this case if we took that three by three filter just on the top left corner multiply by those
filter weights and then some of those results.
And notice how in this case the resolution will actually decrease because we're taking in nine input
values and then just outputting one value now.
As I mentioned we're eventually going to do this across the entire image.
So we're essentially going to stride across the image now something we can edit is our straight distance.
So by default we have to at least stride one pixel over but what we could do is have a straight distance
that's larger maybe you could stride over by two pixels and that's something we can edit and accomplish
denote neural networks as well so to get a better idea of how this actually works.
There's a really fantastic interactive example that I'm going to go to now and my browser and it's at
this you or else at Toyota I O forward slash evey Ford slash image dash kernels.
Okay let's go ahead and go to this in our browser so we can get an idea of how these image filters are
actually applied and what the resulting image looks like.
OK.
So here we are at this status of the I O link for image kernels and the explanation begins by showing
you just a normal image.
So often images have values that go from zero to two hundred fifty five where zero is the darkest possible
value and a two hundred fifty five is the brightest possible value.
So in the case of a grayscale image we have zero as black and then 255 as white.
So we can see here that as we kind of hover above these values we can see over in this white section
that I'm currently hovering over we get values that are pretty close to 255 and then maybe over here
what's darker.
There are a lot lower in value kind of in the 20s.
OK.
So this is kind of a blown up low resolution image.
If you look over here on the very right hand side you see this tiny little picture of faith of face.
Excuse me.
That's the actual kind of real size of this image.
It's not blown up to this kind of larger scale but what's nice about this large scale is you can see
each pixel very clearly individually.
All right.
So we have the numbers between 0 255 and we're gonna do is going to walk through the process of applying
a kernel to this image so here you can actually choose what kind of kernel you want to apply.
We're going to begin with that bleu kernel that we actually mentioned before.
So here are a nine values a three by three matrix or a three by three kernel that we're actually going
to apply this image in order to blur the image.
So what ends up happening and you can see this.
You can play around with this interactively here.
Now we see that little three by three grid.
There we're gonna end up applying across the image and then you can see the output along with the math
of the multiplication.
And notice that the input image versus the output image we can clearly see that the output image has
been blurred due to the transformation of applying this kernel across.
And this process of applying this kernel is sometimes also known as a convolution.
The process of taking this image kernel and then dragging it or with a stride across this image and
getting this output result.
The term convolution is what we call this when we are talking about this in the context of a convolution
on neural network and the main idea behind this is so far we've actually shown you how these kernels
or filters work with predetermined values and those are values that are well known for certain really
common operations like blurring an image.
Later on we're going to want our network to actually choose the weights behind these filters in order
to perform feature extraction.
Maybe we'll have some filters that are really good at detecting eyebrows or something like that if we're
trying to classify faces for example from other images.
So the main idea behind this image kernel in the context of a conventional neural network is that the
actual network will figure out the correct weights instead of us having these predetermined weights.
And often when you're working if accomplished on your own network you'll get a lot of edge detection.
And so we actually have some edge detection or Sobel filters here and you can see here that this is
kind of detecting horizontal lines and you can even have an intuition of this by just checking out the
matrix that we have these larger negative values here and then a center zero line and then larger positive
values on the bottom.
And if you have an intuition of how this will react as you kind of go along the image where you have
strong vertical line such as this person's hairline here you'll get end up results that have larger
values as you go along.
So you can see here because we're starting to detect these kind of horizontal lines the actual output
when you apply this kernel just mathematically the way it works out is very bright versus where there
are no horizontal lines you just end up getting kind of black.
So you can see the output image is clearly outputting clearer portions that are horizontal lines.
So that's what's called the bottom Sobel.
And then you can check out things like right.
And it looks very similar except now this should be detecting kind of vertical lines.
So same idea here we can now see that clearly the vertical lines of this person's face and the left
hand side and this person's face towards the right hand side.
And we can also see their nose starting to appear in the output image.
So the compositional neural network is essentially then going to decide what weights on its own filters
matter for image classification.
And here we can actually have an interactive image and Colonel uploader so you can choose your own image
file and then apply any of these kernels you want and you can even develop your own custom kernels here.
So it allows you to start adding these to do things that you want to explore.
OK.
So the main idea here behind this Web site and showing you how it works is just get the idea that we're
gonna have these kernels.
They don't need to be three by three that can be four by four or five by five.
Obviously the larger there are the more operations and more weights we have to solve for.
But we essentially just drag them over the image and then it's going to output some sort of results
and hopefully as the convolution on your networks learn based off the images we feed it we'll get certain
outputs that are basically extracting important features.
So here we're extracting edge features based off this kernel right here and you can see here that we
have an outline where essentially we're looking for the Central Valley of eight as our main center weight
versus negative one on the edge.
Okay.
So let me go back to our presentation and finish off our discussion on image kernels.
All right.
Hope you enjoyed that interactive example and I encourage you to explore that Web site on your own now
in the context as I mentioned of convolution of neural networks these filters are referred to as convolution
kernels and that process of passing them over an image is known as a convolution.
I want to go over a few more key important factors to keep in mind as we learn more about convolution
on your own networks and image kernels.
Now during convolution We would actually lose borders.
So if you take a closer look at that previous example you'll notice that there was a black border along
the output image and this is because as you start going towards the edge of an image you'll actually
end up just not having values there.
So one way to fix this is you can pad the image of more values and a really common choice is a zero
or a kind of in-between value.
And this allows us to then not lose information along that border.
So it also helps us preserve the image size.
So this known as padding and it's a really common technique.
People often use on their images so they don't lose any border information.
OK so now that we understand image filters let's go ahead and explore the architecture of a convolution
network that allows a network to come up with the best weights for a filter in what is known as the
convolution layer.
So we understand we have these image filters or kernels that we're essentially going to perform a convolution
on the image.
And I showed you filters where we already knew the weights for them.
However when it comes to images such as images of dogs or cats we're not really going to know right
off the bat what filter values or weights are going to be important in order to detect whether a dog
is in an image or a cat isn't an image.
It's probably a better idea to just have the convolution and all network to come up with those weights
themselves.
And this is done in the convolution layer of accomplishment on neural network which are going to go
over in the very next lecture.
I'll see if there.